in the first year of Belshazzar king of
babylon daniel had a dream and visions
of his head while on his bed and he
wrote down the dream telling the main
facts i saw in my vision by night and
behold the four winds of heaven was
stirring up the great sea and four great
beasts came up from the sea each
different from the other the first was
like a lion and had eagle's wings
I watched how its wings were plucked off
and it was lifted up from the earth and
made to stand on two feet like a man and
a man's heart was given to it and
suddenly another beast a second like a
bear
it was raised up on one side and had
three ribs in its mouth between its
teeth and they said laughs to it arise
devour much flesh after this I looked
and there was a man like a leopard which
had on its back four wings of a bird the
Beast also had four heads and Dominion
was given to it after this I saw in the
night visions and behold a fourth beast
dreadful and terrible exceedingly strong
it had huge iron teeth it was devouring
breaking in pieces and trampling the
residue with its feet it was different
from all the beasts that were before it
and it had ten horns I was considering
the horns and there was another horn a
little one coming up among them before
whom three of the first horns were
plucked out by the roots and there in
this horn were eyes like the eyes of a
man and a mouth speaking pompous words I
watched till Thrones were put in place
and the Ancient of Days was seated his
garment was white as snow and the hair
of his head was like pure wool his
throne was a fiery flame its wheels of
burning fire
a fiery stream issued and came forth
from before him a thousand thousands
ministered to him ten thousand times ten
thousand stood before him the court was
seated and the books were opened
I watched then because of the sound of
the pompous words which the horn was
speaking I watched till the beast was
slain and its body destroyed and given
to the burning flame as for the rest of
the beasts they had the dominion taken
away yet their lives were prolonged for
a season and the time I was watching in
the night visions one like the Son of
man coming with the clouds of heaven
he came to the Ancient of Days and they
brought him near before him then to him
was given Dominion and a glory and the
kingdom that all peoples nations and
languages should serve him his Dominion
is an everlasting Dominion which shall
not pass away and his kingdom the one
which shall not be destroyed I Daniel
was grieved in my spirit within my body
and the visions of my head troubled me I
came near to one of those who stood by
and asked him the truth of all this so
he told me and made known to me the
interpretation of these things those
great beasts which are four are four
kings which arise out of the earth but
the Saints of the Most High shall
receive the kingdom and possess the
kingdom forever even forever and ever
then I wish to know the truth about the
fourth beast which was different from
all the others exceedingly dreadful with
its teeth of iron and its nails of
bronze which devoured broken pieces and
trampled the residue with its feet and
the ten horns that were on its head and
the other horn which came up before
which three fell namely that horn which
had eyes and a mouth which spoke pompous
words whose appearance was greater than
his fellows I was watching and the same
horn was making war against the Saints
and prevailing against them until the
Ancient of Days came
and the judgment was made in favor of
the Saints of the Most High and the time
came for the Saints to possess the
kingdom thus he said the fourth beast
shall be a fourth Kingdom on earth which
shall be different from all other
kingdoms and shall devour the whole
earth trample it and break it in pieces
the ten horns are ten Kings who shall
arise from this Kingdom and another
shall rise after them he shall be
different from the first ones and shall
subdue three kings he shall speak
pompous words against the Most High
shall persecute the Saints of the Most
High and shall intend to change times
and law then the Saints shall be given
into his hand for a time and times and
half a time but the court shall be
seated and they shall take away his
Dominion to consume and destroy it
forever
then the kingdom and Dominion and the
greatness of the kingdoms under the
whole heaven shall be given to the
people the Saints of the Most High
his kingdom is an everlasting Kingdom
and all dominions shall serve and obey
Him this is the end of the account as
for me Daniel my thoughts greatly
troubled me and my countenance changed
but I kept the matter in my heart
[Music]